one of the classic features of any SLR
camera has been the split image focusing
screen it's a necessity
when using manual focus it's been around
for a long time it's very hard to find
something better it's also very hard to
think of some way to incorporate that
into a new type of camera like the XC 2
but I am very privileged to be sitting
next to someone tom Kauai who developed
the digital split image focusing system
for the x100s and the XE - thank you for
coming along thank you Tom this must
have been a very hard thing to develop
yes how many years did you spend two
years two years just on the split image
focusing system Wow so exactly how does
the digital split image focus operate on
a user level well unlike the old SLR
where you had two semicircles that you
would line up on the XE - you actually
have a rectangle in the middle of the
screen or the eyepiece that has four
layers to it
when you line those four layers up it's
fairly simple to see that your subject
is in focus now you can actually keep
that rectangle in the middle of the
screen or the viewfinder or you can
actually make that fullscreen so the
whole screen becomes digital split image
viewfinder for those more difficult to
focus subjects
I believe it actually it's it's very
different to the x100s system because on
this camera the exit - you've actually
had to make it work with all of the
fujinon lenses and there's another
secret - you've actually got to work
with non fujinon lenses as we have here
that's right if you are using manual
focus you can use genuine Fuji lenses or
non fujinon lenses and you can use the
digital split image focus system as
developed by tom co i for fuji film
this is an amazing piece of technology
that incorporates both hardware the
145,000 phase detection pixels
incorporated into the surface of the
amazing x-trans CMOS sensor and software
as well so there is it was very
difficult to Tom to write a program that
could not only do this but do it in real
time and do it for so many different
lenses and if you think about it this
program has had to be written for lenses
that it doesn't even know about and that
is something it's just too difficult to
think of for me I'll leave that to
geniuses like Tom so I think you've
really got to appreciate the technology
and hard work and brilliance that's gone
into this to make the camera so easy and
so reliable to use it really is a
wonderful piece of technology and I'm
sure you'll enjoy using the digital
split image focus system when you use
your new XE - that's fantastic
thank you very much Tom that is
wonderful